# BINARY TREE DATA STRUCTURE IN PYTHON

## DESCRIPTION

My implementation of binary trees in Python.

&nbsp;

## FEATURES

Binary trees:

- 3 types of trees: Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree, AVL Tree.
- Regular operations:
  - Checking empty.
  - Getting height.
  - Counting nodes.
  - Traversal (pre-order, in-order, post-order).
  - Checking existence of a key.
  - Getting minimum key.
  - Getting maximum key.
  - Insertion.
  - Removal.
  - Constructing from a list.

Plus, I develop ```BinTreeDisplay```, which allows displaying binary tree in ASCII text:

- Can config branch spacing. The more branch spacing, the more width of the tree.
- Can config precision of floating-point numbers.
- Accepts any type of key of node. Just makes sure key is convertible to string.
- Accepts any structure of node, which is high flexibily.
- Can config left margin.
- Output to string or list of rows.

Output example generated by ```BinTreeDisplay```:

```text
                            100
                            |
                 -----------------------------
                50                           70000
                |                            |
         -------------                ----------
        10           88.524       20000        90000
        |            |            |
      -----        ---          -----
-123456   14.78   62          500   30000.19
                                    |
                                    ---
                                      40000
```

&nbsp;

## DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

- ```binarytree```: package "binary tree", which comprises modules ```BinTree```, ```BinarySearchTree```, ```AvlTree```.
- ```binarytreedisp```: package "binary tree display", which comprises module ```BinTreeDisplay```.
- ```test```: testing script.

&nbsp;

## CONVENTIONS

1. Respect the clean code.
2. Respect the simplicity over the complexity.
3. Respect the organization over the algorithms.
4. Focus on high performance, code reuse, code maintenance.

&nbsp;

## LICENSE

Copyright (c) Thanh Trung NGUYEN.

This project is licensed under the [3-Clause BSD License](LICENSE.txt).
