# BINARY TREE DATA STRUCTURE IN CPP

## DESCRIPTION

My implementation of binary trees in C++.

This project is ported from my original project ```bintree_py``` (using Python).

The following sections are copied from original ```bintree_py/README```.

&nbsp;

## FEATURES

Binary trees:

- 3 types of trees: Binary Tree, Binary Search Tree, AVL Tree.
- Regular operations:
  - Checking empty.
  - Getting height.
  - Counting nodes.
  - Traversal (pre-order, in-order, post-order).
  - Checking existence of a key.
  - Getting minimum key.
  - Getting maximum key.
  - Insertion.
  - Removal.
  - Constructing from a list.

Plus, I develop ```BinTreeDisplay```, which allows displaying binary tree in ASCII text:

- Can config branch spacing. The more branch spacing, the more width of the tree.
- Can config precision of floating-point numbers.
- Accepts any type of key of node. Just makes sure key is convertible to string.
- Accepts any structure of node, which is high flexibily.
- Can config left margin.
- Output to string or list of rows.

Output example generated by ```BinTreeDisplay```:

```text
                            100
                            |
                 -----------------------------
                50                           70000
                |                            |
         -------------                ----------
        10           88.524       20000        90000
        |            |            |
      -----        ---          -----
-123456   14.78   62          500   30000.19
                                    |
                                    ---
                                      40000
```

&nbsp;

## DIRECTORY STRUCTURE

- ```binarytree```: package "binary search tree", which comprises modules ```BinTree```, ```BinarySearchTree```, ```AvlTree```.
- ```binarytreedisp```: package "binary tree display", which comprises module ```BinTreeDisplay```.
- ```test```: testing script.

&nbsp;

## CONVENTIONS

1. Respects the clean code.
2. Respects the simplicity over the complexity.
3. Respects the organization over the algorithms.
4. Focuses on high performance, code reuse, code maintenance.

Plus, by using C++:

- Due to portability, **each module is fully presented in a single file**.
- **Prefers C++ pointers** to C++ references (because C++ pointers are compatible with other common programming languages).

&nbsp;

## BUILDING THE CODE

### LINUX

Simply run build.sh:

```bash
sh build.sh
```

If the build successes, there is a executable file named ```outputexec```. Makes sure this file has execute permission. Now we can run the program:

```bash
sh ./outputexec
```

### WINDOWS

Update later.

&nbsp;

## LICENSE

Copyright (c) Thanh Trung NGUYEN.

This project is licensed under the [3-Clause BSD License](LICENSE.txt).
